---
layout: post
title: "Week 7"
subtitle: "Week 7 Activities"
background: "/img/bg-post.jpg"
---

# Data Science News
No news this week. 

# Week 7 Reflection
This week, I attempted to create a more specialised Power BI page focusing on replacement costs. Because I had become more used to using the software, it was easier to manipulate the data and get it in the form I wanted. 

I managed to create tables and figures which outlined the replacement costs per hospital branch, costs for replacing equipment expiring within a set number of years and by type of equipment. The dashboard came out satisfactory, with figures I thought were relevant. I then went on to attempt another specialised dashboard, this time focusing on the asset compliance and criticality where this is where I came across a difficult challenge. I was not able to create meaningful figures due to the lack of diversity in data as well has having a limited dataset in general. 

The main issue was that the values in the columns which were being focused on had little to no variability, for example the criticality rating column was 3 for all assets. This meant that it was difficult to compare the assets and draw meaningful conclusions which was exacerbated by similar lack of variability in other columns. To attempt to overcome this challenge, I tried thinking of ways to gain insight by using columns which had more variability. However due to the limited nature of the dataset as a whole, this proved difficult. 

During a weekly meeting with the supervisor, we suggested if we could take a look at some other datasets we could work on to try and find new information and relationships. This would enable us to work with new data and gain some more insight, however the request is still pending. Overall, it was a good experience to get to know Power BI better, and a good challenge to try and create something with limited data and information.  