---
layout: post
title: "Week 5"
subtitle: "Week 5 Activities"
background: "/img/posts/parallel-computing/farm.jpg"
---

# Data Science News
This week, I'll be sharing how data science can be utilised to have positive impacts in agriculture. Agriculture is not original an area I thought of to associate with data science, however there is massive potential in data science for agriculture especially in a time where climate change is a major concern. An [article](https://www.datasciencecentral.com/precision-agriculture-powered-by-ai-for-climate-resilient-crops/) by Shanthababu Pandian details the areas in which AI can be utilised. Some major functional aspects of AI in agriculture include:
<ul>
  <li>Soil Data</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Soil composition, pH and moisture levels can be used to optimise fertilisation strategies<li>
    </ul>
</ul>

<ul>   
  <li>Weather data</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Weather forecasting can be used to guide irrigation and planting</li>
    </ul>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>Crop data</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Satellite imagery to monitor crop health, detecting diseases or nutrient deficiencies<li>
    </ul>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>Pest detection</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Predictive modelling to prevent or avoid pest infestations and outbreaks<li>
    </ul>
</ul> 
Utilising data science techniques obviously come with a number of significant benefits such as increased yields, reduced costs and environmental sustainability. However that's not to say these don't come with it's challenges. One major challenge is data availability, which can be a challenge across all data science projects in general. Quality data may not be readily available in areas which lack the infrastructure or technology, which leads into the next challenge; cost. Gathering quality data requires a lot of expensive infrastructure and equipment, where not all places will have access to. Furthermore, not all farmers will have the necessary technical expertise to implement such data science techniques making it difficult to scale into large operations across all farms. Some real world applications of data science being used was highlighted in this article, such as Blue River Technology using AI powered robotics for weed control, and CropIn which provides AI powered solutions for monitoring farm conditions and improving productivity. Anywhere where data exists, it seems data science can always be of beneficial use, and it is fascinating to see how different forms of data can be creatively utilised to optimise processes.

# Week 5 Reflection
This week, we were tasked to write up a report based on the data we were tasked to clean. The main objective was to highlight which assets needed replacing soonest, and which assets in general were in need of attention. Finding this out was pretty straightforward, as I just needed to use the filter functions in excel. Next, I proceeded to take a look at the finacial aspect of replacing these asssets, and determine which assets were most expensive, which hospital branch had the most number of old equipment and which branch would take up the most amount of budget. Because the size of each hospital included in the dataset varied, it was difficult to make a direct comparison to each other. For example, branch had over 40 entries in the data while another only had 2. Just by that, it was diffcult to know which hospital had the most amount of old equipment as it didn't show the full picture. Nevertheless, I was able to get a good understanding of the amount in costs each hospital required to have their assets replaced. I also created a basic line graph depicting when equipment will expire each year, and how much that will cost in total for that year. This gave a good general picture on when a lot of equipment will expire as well as the costs associated with that year. Some assets were well over the expiry date, as my supervisor mentioned that a lot of other factors come into play when considering replacing equipment. For example, even if a machine is years out of date, if it works fine and there are replacement parts readily available for repairs, then that machine is allowed to keep running. Or, if a machine breaks down frequently enough that the downtime affects efficiency, then that machine will most likely be put up for replacement. Many factors come into play when considering replacing machines, as these machines are very costly and there is limited budget so optimisation is key.  