---
layout: post
title: "Week 3"
subtitle: "Week 3 Activities"
background: "img/bg-post.jpg"
---

# Data science news 
For the news this week, I'll be sharing a recent [article by Robert Stanley](https://www.datasciencecentral.com/data-quality-for-unbiased-results-preventing-ai-induced-hallucinations/) on preventing AI-induced hallucinations. The article covers some possible strategies that can be used to tackle AI hallucinations, and what must be done for quality AI output. First, what do people mean when they say "The AI hallucinates"? To put it simply, it refers to the phenomemon when LLMs spit out nonsensical slop and present it as fact. It occurs when it has been fed inaccurate, biased and incomplete training data, and can impede business outcomes. Another potentially big issue is the risk of a persons health and life, where a hallucinating AI may prescribe the wrong doses of a certain drug which is a task a human would pay close attention to. This means a persons life is dependent on a sloppy, hallucinating AI due to poor and inaccurate training data. Stanley proceeds to list some ways to tackle this issue, the first being making sure that clean data is being used. This is essential practice in data science in general, and it is mentioned that "gold standard" reference datasets are critical when trying to minimise inaccurate results. Next, supervision is strongly recommended, comparing outcomes with expected content and relationships. This way potential errors are corrected or flagged in real time. It is near impossible to get the "perfect data" without bias, inaccuracies or anomalies, however it is possible to mitigate hallucination as much as possible using these practices and obtain better, more accurate outcomes. 

# Week 3 Reflection
This week was mainly focusing on trying to finish cleaning up the dataset after recieving more information on each column and obtaining a clearer sense of direction. A big challenge I came across was cleaning up a particularly messy column. This column was probably the messiest I've come across, because it was an amalgumation of different information with inconsistent spacing and conventions. To clean up this column, at first I started to brainstorm way to make the column look a little neater, but then decided it was proabably best to split that column up into smaller ones. Thankfully the entries had some similarities with what type of information it contained such as serial numbers, so I was able to create separate columns for those sets of information. The column ended up looking still a little messy, however creating new columns and extracting some information definitely made it look a lot more organised and simpler to read. The next challenge is to determine the replacement cost of each medical imaging equipment and create a new column. This is still an ongoing challenge, as it is quite difficult to know how much specific machines cost, and I'll have to get creative potentially using AI. Next time when cleaning up an especially messy column, instead of trying to organise information within the column, the first thing I would check would be common information of each entry and try to figure out a way to split that column up in a way that is easy to understand and look at. Doing this will save lots of time, as getting the data in that format would make things a lot easier to see.