---
layout: post
title: "Week 9"
subtitle: "Week 9 Activities"
background: "/img/bg-post.jpg"
---

# Data Science News
##### Using Vision Language Models to Process Millions of Documents
This week, I'll be sharing an [article](https://towardsdatascience.com/using-vision-language-models-to-process-millions-of-documents/) by Eivind Kjosbakken on Vision Language Models. Vision Language Models (VLMs) are advanced machine learning systems that combine visual and textual processing which enables them to solve tasks more complex than standard LLMs. An example would be interpreting documents with checkboxes, where both text and spatial placement matter. Unlike LLMs, which rely on lose positional context, VLMs directly integrate visual layout with textual meaning, making them suited for such problems.

VLMs have a wide range of applications. They can facilitate computer use by recognising screen elements or assist in debugging by identifying issues within applications. Some common tasks include visual question answering, where both an image and a query must be processed to generate accurate answers. They are also effective in classification, where documents are categorised into groups and for information extraction, where structured outputs like JSON objects are generated from images.

All is good, however VLMs still do face limitations. They are costly to run due to the large number of tokens generated when encoding high resolution images, making inference expensive. They also struggle with larger documents, as context window limits restrict how many pages can be processed at once. Overall, VLMs unlock transformative capabilities but require careful tradeoffs between accuracy and cost.

# Week 9 Reflection
This week, we were given the task of summarising what we had done with the Power BI work where we have to include findings and insights. The process on how the dashboards were made also have to be documented as well as any challenges that arose. I have a rough idea on how to approach in summarising the findings, as they were pretty straightforward and there weren't too many moving parts. 

I have made 3 dashboards in total, all of which are made using only a few features. In addition, documenting the challenges will also be straightforward, as I have come across a big one; limited data, as well as getting used to using Power BI in general. The main challenge of this task will be to explain the process of how I produced the dashboards in simple and intuitive way, so that others will get a basic understanding of how to use it as well.

To successfully complete this part of the summary, I plan to go over some tutorials again and get a good understanding of how different parts work and interact with each other. This way I can get a good understanding myself and gain confidence to clearly explain the process of making the dashboards. Power BI was a little fiddly at first however I got used to the interface and software pretty quickly, and I am confident that I will be able to include a solid summary on the process behind creating a dashboard. 