---
layout: post
title: "Week 12"
subtitle: "Week 12 Activities"
background: "/img/bg-post.jpg"
---

# Data Science News
#### Statistics or Machine Learning?
This is a question I had in my mind ever since I started this course. With so many overlaps I always found it difficult to definitively distinguish the two, it was always: "same same but different". So for this week we will take a look at a [post](https://medium.com/data-science/the-actual-difference-between-statistics-and-machine-learning-64b49f07ea3) by Matthew Stewart, and get to the bottom of this.

The core differences of the two lies in their purposes. Statistics is primarily about inference and understanding relationships between variables to draw conclusions about populations from samples, whereas machine learning is about prediction and building models that generalise well to unseen data. Although both can make predictions and interpret relationships, the main objectives differ.

There is a lot of overlap due to machine learning being built upon statistics. Statistical concepts are used, but is extended with things like optimisation, algorithms and a bit of computer science methods as well.

Which is better? As always, neither. They serve different purposes and are used depending on the situation. Machine learning should be used when the aim is high accuracy in predictions (predicting diseases etc.), statistics should be used to understand relationships between variables.


# Week 12 Reflection
In this final week I was tasked with presenting what I had made to my supervisors, in around five to seven minutes. I made sure to rehearse a few times to make sure that it went smoothly, and thankfully due to the simpler nature of the presentation this was not a big challenge. It also helped that it wasn't a serious presentation which took the edge off of things and I was less nervous.

I was happy with the way I presented everything, making sure to mention all of the things I included as well as adding some details I memorised off by heart. It was important that I made sure to emphasise all of the general key takeaways during the internship, as this was the main goal of the presentation and not just highlighting a single project.

There were no challenges I came across, as the presentation was quite relaxed and not too formal. I was satisfied with my presentation, as well as the supervisors.

Overall this intership although different to what I had in mind, exposed me to a bit more of the real world, and how the workforce operates. It was a great opportunity to talk to and meet new people as well as learn about the inner workings of a very large organisation in healthcare. The knowledge I have gained over these weeks will definitely help me ease in to employment and get used to these environments a lot quicker.
