---
layout: post
title: "Week 6"
subtitle: "Week 6 Activities"
background: "img/posts/parallel-computing/startup.png"
---

# Data Science News 
For this week, I'll be sharing an [article](https://towardsdatascience.com/what-being-a-data-scientist-at-a-startup-really-looks-like/) by Yu Dong where they describe their experiences in working at a startup. A little different from previous weeks, but I thought it was an interesting read to know what other work environments were like. Yu begins by detailing the difference in pace of startups and larger companies, where he states that startups moves fast and are very goal oriented instead of focusing on a product feature for years. The challenge of a faster moving environment is that data scientists need to follow the company's strategy and adapt to changes constantly. This means sometimes doing things the faster way instead of the most reliable or scalable way which leads to a bit of unavoidable chaos.

Yu then continues by describing the tasks that they need to undertake at a startup, where one will most likely work in all of data engineering, analytics and science. Because of the limited team members and a lack of clear structure at smaller startups, those who are in the position will have to do pretty much everything to meet goals. The upsides of this, especially for those who are unsure in what path they want to take is that they are able to get a taste and feeling of everything and decide where to go next. However, this is also the downside as you won't be able to focus on the things you want and might not necessarily align with your career goals. It is important to keep an open mind when working at startups and expect to do things you normally wouldn't do.

Finally, Yu mentions higher visibility and exposure to new tools. Data scientists at startups have the capability to directly see how their work is being put to use, and have a clear vision on what the issues are. They are able to work directly with higher ups to discuss business questions and urgent problems, which is not something that you experience in larger firms. According to Yu, this was some of the best moments at their time at the startup, as they could clearly see the impact they were making. Small startups are also more adventurous and brave when it comes to new tech and do not shy away from new ideas. This enabled Yu to keep up with current evolving tech and experiment with new programs which allowed for more creative freedom. However Yu does mention how being an early adopter of new tech and ideas can potentially lead to workflow disruptions and rebuilding infrastructure which leads to a less stable development experience.

Startups offer exposure to variability, variety, new tech or ideas and speed. However with that comes a little bit of chaos and doing things you normally wouldn't or things you don't enjoy. Overall, Yu mentions if you thrive in ambiguity and want rapid growth, startups is the place to be.

# Week 6 Reflection
In this week, I had a chance to work with Microsoft Power BI to create interactive dashboards which present graphs, tables and figures. I have never used Power BI before but I was also aware the skill to use the program is highly sought after by a majority of companies out there, so I was very excited to get into it. At first, I had to look up some tutorials online, since I had no idea what to do or where to start. Thankfully, there were plenty of video tutorials and online resources I could use to guide me, and with the help of a little bit of AI, I was able to get the ball rolling. I ended up creating a page detailing relationships between variables all around, with no specific focus on a particular feature. I included information and graphs such as "total replacement cost by campus location" and "assets by remaining useful life". I was able to get some good graphs and basic insight of the dataset I was working with all presented neatly in a dashboard. The most challenging part of this task was creating "measures". Meaures in Power BI are calculations such as sums, averages, min/max and counts which are used for specific visualisations. The reason I found this challenging is because I had to use DAX(Data Analysis Expressions) formulas which required some notation knowledge, knowledge I didn't have. This is where AI came in handy, as I was able to get a good grasp on some of the notation required. Once I had somewhat of an understanding of how these processes worked, the progress became a bit smoother. Overall, it took me a bit less effort than I thought to create a dashboard thanks to online resources and AI. The next step is to create separate dashboards focusing on more intricate relationships between variables to get some better insight.   