---
layout: post
title: "Week 8"
subtitle: "Week 8 Activities"
background: "/img/posts/parallel-computing/x-ray-skeleton-2x.webp"
---

# Data Science News
This week, we will be discussing a [post](https://www.datasciencecentral.com/how-diagnosis-image-annotation-turns-scans-into-insights/) by Rayan Potter regarding diagnosis image annotation. Diagnostic image annotation is the labelling of CT, MRI, X-ray, and other scans so models can learn to detect patterns or conditions. These annotations form the “ground truth data” that enables algorithms to distinguish normal from abnormal, much like a radiologist develops expertise through repeated practice. Without high-quality labeled data, AI models cannot deliver consistent or trustworthy results in clinical settings.

Expert review is essential since medical images often present blurred boundaries or imperfections. Radiologists ensure annotations are meaningful and reflect real world complexity, reducing the risk of flawed training data which leads to incorrect diagnoses. However, challenges include: very large volumes of imaging data, limited availability, lack of standardisation and strict privacy requirements.

Despite these challenges, investment is growing as accurate annotation can dramatically improve diagnosis speed and reliability. The future points toward semi automated, human verified annotation pipelines and learning approaches that preserve privacy while expanding data access. Annotated datasets are the invisible foundation of medical AI, turning images into actionable insights and enabling breakthroughs like early cancer detection or stroke identification.

This is similar in context to the project regarding catheter placement in ADS2002, which is why it caught my attention.

# Week 8 Reflection
This week, because the supervisors were very busy a weekly meeting was not done and therefore no further tasks were given. I began continuing to try and tackle the challenge of trying to produce insight with the limited dataset, and made another dashboard with limited success. The supervisor did give a list of some things they were looking for from data they had, such as figures and plots of different relationships between features. Going through the list however, was not very helpful as a vast majority of the features that they wanted to see the relationships between didn't exist in my dataset. Because of this, added with the lack of variability in data I figured there was only so much I could do with such a limited dataset. This made me realise that insight can be gained, however whether it is complex and detailed really depends on the type of dataset given. Variability of data, range of columns and number of entries all contribute to how much good insight can be gained from a dataset. No matter what kinds of techniques are used if the data is too simple, the potential output will be limited. Next time I will keep this in mind and roughly gauge the amount I can do on a specific dataset, and request more detail or data if possible. 