---
layout: post
title: "Week 11"
subtitle: "Week 11 Activities"
background: "/img/posts/parallel-computing/snek.webp"
---

# Data Science News
#### Will data scientists be replaced by AI?
This week, we will be asking and discussing the question on everyone's mind right now: "Will I be replaced by AI?" With LLMs and AI tools improving at a seemingly unstoppable rate, this is a real concern a lot of people have, especially with a lot of roles starting to be replaced. So will data scientists be replaced by AI in the near future?

Short answer: No.

Long answer:
From all the articles I have read adressing this question the general consensus is that AI will not be replacing data scientists any time soon, instead they will be used as a tool to improve efficiency. A [post](https://medium.com/data-science-collective/data-science-is-dead-again-why-the-role-keeps-evolving-not-disappearing-21ac8586a22a) by Nathan Rosidi suggests that AI definitely has it's place in contributing to the workflow. However, it ultimately lacks critical thinking, creativity and make independent decisions, properties essential in the data science field. He suggests that it is an evolving field, and not a role up for replacement. This leads into the next point of evolution. Because it's such a dynamic and ever evolving field, it doesn't help to have the mindset of "I'm safe from AI so I'll just keep doing what I've been doing". It is important to evolve with the scene and keep up to date with current affairs otherwise you will fall behind.

Data science will thankfully not be replaced anytime soon, however it is still important to keep learning and growing in a constantly changing field.


# Week 11 Reflection
As we near the end of the internship, we were tasked to create a short final presentation summarising our experience at Eastern Health. The supervisor was not very specific on the content that needed to be included, which means that I have quite a bit of creative freedom. 

It's important that I include all the key tasks I was responsible with as well as important skills I have learnt along the way. Equally important is the challenges I encountered, as this could potentially be important feedback they could use for their future internship programs.

Finally, I also decided to include a slide focusing on the general key takeaways I had being in an actual work environment, as these were very important for equipping me with the knowledge and tools to navigate myself around the worforce.

A challenge for this particular task was trying to figure out what to include in the presentation as there is a time limit of around 5 minutes. This is a common challenge for me when making a short presentation, as it is important to only include the most important points. A strategy I have developed throughout the years was fist roughly outlining the main, major points. This way I have a clearer direction on what I need to include and what I don't. Then, I fill in the gaps still keeping in mind that only necessary points get included. Although simple, this strategy helped me get through the initial obstacle of trying to figure out what to include.

The slides are finished, and now it is a matter of revising them for presentation.


